---
num: 1
title: TechHire Ecosystem Planning
---

### Checklist:

<p class="expander" data-expander-target="#share-goals1">
  Shared goals: The main goal of TechHire is to create opportunities for individuals both to master and be recognized for the skills needed to be hired into good jobs in information technology.
</p>
<div id="share-goals1">
  <p>This is accomplished through two primary activities: 1) training job seekers for IT jobs and 2) enabling large numbers of employers commit to hire based on abilities rather than traditional credentials. TechHire partners in your community - including employers and industry groups, educators and training providers, and other civic organizations - should provide input on a shared set of targets as well as additional goals that may be important for your local TechHire. See plays 2 and 3 for information on engaging these stakeholders in goal setting and in action.</p>
  <ul id="share-goals1">
    <li>Hiring: How many TechHire job placements will the TechHire initiative in your community aim to reach across all employers and partners this year?</li>
    <li>Training: Working backwards from your placements goals, how many job seekers will you aim to identify as having the right (unrecognized) skills and match them with employers? How many will be trained this year through TechHire training providers, existing and new?</li>
    <li>Job Seeker Outreach: In order to meet your hiring and training goals, how many total potential job seekers do you aim to make aware of the TechHire opportunity this year?</li>
    <li>Specific segments of job seekers: Do TechHire partners in your community have goals related to reaching or training specific segments of job seekers? If important segments are not served by existing partners, which new community partners should join TechHire?</li>
  </ul>
</div>

<p class="expander" data-expander-target="#align-roles1">
  Alignment on roles
</p>
<ul id="align-roles1">
  <li>Employer engagement - Who is responsible for organizing employers? It is important for the employer community to come together to align their projected hiring needs to local education and training programs to ensure a pipeline of candidates.</li>
  <li>Job seeker outreach and training – Who is responsible for outreach to job seekers and enlisting training providers? The criteria for training providers to be added as upskilling resources should be clear to all partners will be added as upskilling resources. And the job seeker experience should be streamlined with central information on training and job matching resources.</li>
  <li>Validation and matching – What is the trusted, low-cost method for validating the aptitude, soft skills, and technical skills of job seekers and “matching” them to training or to job opportunities? This is needed in order for employers to hire based on abilities rather than traditional credentials at any level of scale.</li>
  <li>Metrics and data collection – Who is responsible for collecting and aggregating data to track progress towards goals? It is important to have an organization playing this role. And it should be clear to all partners what data will be made public and in what form. It is helpful, though not necessary, if the same organization that is collecting information on outcomes to provide to job seekers is also collecting and aggregating data on progress towards goals.</li>
</ul>

<p class="expander" data-expander-target="#resources1">
  Resources: The work of TechHire cannot be accomplished without dedicated resources to facilitate the overall effort for busy employers, and to identify untapped talent with relevant skills and expand access to accelerated training for motivated individuals who would not otherwise have the opportunity to gain the IT job skills they need to be hired. There are two primary categories of TechHire work that require dedicated resources:
</p>
<ul id="resources1">
  <li>TechHire initiative overall coordination</li>
  <li>Broadening access and opportunity, including funds for job seeker outreach, training scholarships, and wraparound support such as transportation and childcare</li>
</ul>

<p class="expander" data-expander-target="#funding1">
  Potential Sources of Funding Checklist
</p>
<ul id="funding1">
  <li>WIOA</li>
  <li>Discretionary grants</li>
  <li>Accreditation / EQUIP</li>
  <li>State or local funds</li>
  <li>Philanthropic funders</li>
</ul>
