---
id: 2
title: Gathering the Data
---

To effectively align education and workforce systems to the needs of employers, it is important to send accurate signals about what skillsets are required, in what quantity, and on what timeframe. In order to accomplish this, develop a shared language to describe hiring requirements so employers can more clearly communicate to providers and candidates what people should know or be able to do to perform a critical job. And ensure that training providers understand this language. In addition to building a shared language and collecting information directly from employers, it can be helpful to obtain regular real-time demand analysis from a labor market information firm (LMI). And the best available analysis of the existing supply of talent and tech training landscape is a valuable resource as well.

### Checklist
- Employers: Engage in workforce planning activities to better understand demand for key strategic initiatives. The leadership team should assess key skill gaps at individual contributor and manager levels to build a functional workforce plan of gaps within the organization.
  - Key to the workforce planning process is to think beyond immediate skills shortages to focus on the skills required to execute strategic goals for the organization across the next year, 2 year and 5 year horizon. Included are developing responses to what the key challenges are, how these challenges will affect the skills and competencies required by the organization, and finally, what actions are required to address these specific gaps. 
  - understanding composition changes
- Employers: Share competency expectations with other employers to determine which skills and competencies are most in demand amongst employers in the region
- Community: Develop a short- and long-term industry projection that estimate future job openings, and add to these projections with labor market information from ESMI and Burning Glass, for instance. 
 - LMI analysis can include:
   - Number of open IT jobs and number of open IT jobs cut by occupational category (programming and design, data, support)
   - Top open occupations
   - Top skills (cut by baseline and specific to occupational category)
- Community: Locate the best available analysis of the local incumbent tech workforce as well as the existing tech training landscape. If possible, rely on an aggregate supply analysis conducted by a third party as well as information on quality of training obtained directly from employers or training providers.
 - A decent aggregate supply analysis for the region may already exist, and this should be something to ask about when reaching out to potential planning partners. A supply analysis should include:
   - What is the size and composition of the incumbent tech workforce?
   - Inventory of existing training programs that provides information on each program including: annual enrollment, annual completion, admissions criteria, whether the program is real-time or self-paced, length of program, part-time vs. full-time, tuition, and availability of public and/or scholarship funding.
 - Information on job placement rates and success of those placements should be obtained for each training program where possible. Many training programs do not collect or will not share this information. In this case anecdotal information – including the number of hires and success of those hires, in addition to a possible marketing testimonial - from employers about their experience can be helpful.
- Community: Choose which capabilities and positions are most critical across employers in the region – and are forecasted in high demand – and focus on efforts to build those capabilities in the marketplace.
- Community: Share information on employer needs and on existing supply with all partners. If possible, rely on the aggregate analyses conducted by third parties as well as information collected directly from employers.
