---
num: 3
title: Enlisting Employers
---

Employers are experiencing difficulty hiring skilled IT workers: compared to 2010, time to fill IT roles takes five additional weeks. By 2020, there is an expectation that there will be 1 million more IT jobs than computer science students in the United States. And these open jobs cut across industries, with two of three open IT jobs in industries outside of tech, including health, financial services, retail, and manufacturing. Working together with other employers in the local community, TechHire allows employers to signal to job seekers and training providers which skills are required for in-demand local jobs and provide feedback on which programs are producing quality candidates. By aligning with other employers, the collective group can build an ecosystem with a larger supply of quality IT talent, and do so more efficiently and cost-effectively than most individual employers could accomplish on their own.

### Checklist:

<p class="expander" data-expander-target="#usecase3">
  Community: Build your use case for employers to participate in TechHire
</p>
<ul id="usecase3">
  <li>Explain this is an effort to help them gain efficient access to quality talent and learn about which programs and individuals have the talent employers need for their business</li>
  <li>Demonstrate how becoming a member of a national TechHire employer network can help an employer learn how others are tapping overlooked talent, and share best practices on how to source and hire, evaluate and retain nontraditionally trained IT employees</li>
  <li>Share in capacity building of the local economy and ensure the sustainability of IT talent pipeline that will provide quality and consistent pipelines of candidates in the coming years</li>
</ul>

<p class="expander" data-expander-target="#organize3">
  Community: Organize employers
</p>
<ul id="organize3">
  <li>Approach existing employer alliances in your community to explain what TechHire is about</li>
  <li>Leverage existing relationships through a Workforce Board, Chamber of Commerce, Mayor's office and other entities engaged with and trusted by local employers</li>
  <li>Encourage enthusiastic employers to engage their network. Equip them with the language about purpose of TechHire, and ask them to reach out to colleagues to build on the effort.</li>
</ul>

<p class="expander" data-expander-target="#advocates3">
  Communities: Identify employer advocates
</p>
<ul id="advocates3">
  <li>Seek out a handful of relationships in the employer community who have been practicing inclusive hiring, see its value, and are willing to evangelize. These early peer leaders are key.</li>
</ul>

<p class="expander" data-expander-target="#network3">
  Employers: Expand the network
</p>
<ul id="network3">
  <li>An employer centric collaborative is built most successfully by employers who can come together to define what objectives and outcomes the collaborative should achieve, but do so with the unprecedented efficiency of TechHire.</li>
</ul>

<p class="checked">
  Community: Build relationships with a handful of employers committed to the mission of TechHire whom you can consult with on communications, strategy, outreach and success.
</p>

<h3 class="expander" data-expander-target="#questions3">
  Key Questions
</h3>

<ul id="questions3">
  <li>Who are your primary advocates in the employer community, and why are they involved?</li>
  <li>What needs do they have that TechHire can address?</li>
  <li>What relationships do you have in your networks to introduce you to others who may be interested in the effort?</li>
  <li>Who can the employer contact about any questions they may have?</li>
</ul>
