---
num: 4
title: Enlisting Training Providers and Other Integrated Job Seeker Resources
---

### Checklist:

<p class="expander" data-expander-target="#usecase4">
  Community: Build your use case for training providers and other job seeker resource partners to participate in TechHire
</p>
<ul id="usecase4">
  <li>Explain that this is an effort to help employers identify and hire skilled individuals who they would otherwise overlook</li>
  <li>Demonstrate how TechHire can expand access for job seekers to employers and jobs: previously overlooked job seekers will a chance to develop and demonstrate their abilities to employers who are willing to hire candidates from nontraditional pathways; by supporting their graduates' use of TechHire skills validation and matching tools, education and training providers and workforce partners can join the curated hiring channel list, and all individuals will be invited to regular employer meet and greets.</li>
  <li>Participation will help to grow the tech training landscape by demonstrating that there is a market for job seekers sourced and trained via nontraditional pathways.</li>
  <li>Develop buy-in for a set criteria for training providers to participate.</li>
</ul>

<p class="expander" data-expander-target="#supply4">
  Community: Share information on employer needs and on existing supply with all partners. If possible, rely on the aggregate analyses conducted by third parties as well as information collected directly from employers.
 </p>
 <ul id="supply4">
  <li>Compare inventory of existing supply with a look at current employer needs, and examine projections up to at least two years ahead.</li>
  <li>Examine potential to build out training supply with existing institutions of higher ed or training programs.</li>
  <li>Consider partnering with accelerated training programs that have been successful in other regions.</li>
</ul>

<p class="expander" data-expander-target="#goals4">
  Community: Work with supply-side partners to set shared goals, building on the hiring and training goals for the overall initiative.
</p>
<ul id="goals4">
  <li>Work with each training provider partner to establish job placement rate goals that take into account the unique situation and starting point for each institution.</li>
  <li>Consider setting a shared job seeker outreach goal.</li>
  <li>Consider other factors that partners may want to include in the goals such as reaching specific job seeker population segments.</li>
  <li>Consider working with economic development partners to include economic development goals such as entry of new businesses or relocations.</li>
</ul>

<p class="expander" data-expander-target="#sidebar4">
  Sidebar: Partner Roles for Integration of Job Seeker Resources
</p>
<ul id="sidebar4">
  <li><strong>Job seeker outreach</strong> – Who are the target job seekers, and how will they be made aware of the TechHire opportunity? Ideally outreach is done under a shared TechHire brand and job seekers are directed to a central location to learn about the variety of training options and pathways that are available.</li>
  <li><strong>Job seeker navigation</strong> – Once job seekers become aware of TechHire, how will they learn about the IT job and career opportunities in the region, as well as the pathways to getting there? Consider the creation of one central location where job seekers can go for this information.  And for training and on-ramp options, provide job seekers with the information that is available on outcomes of these programs – job placement rates and success of these job placements.
    <ul>
      <li>Additional standard information on training programs should include: annual enrollment, annual completion, admissions criteria, whether the program is real-time or self-paced, length of program, part-time vs. full-time, tuition, and availability of public and/or scholarship funding.</li>
      <li>Pre-Training Assessment – While many training providers have their own admissions criteria, it can be helpful to have a shared assessment or sorting process that is provided to all job seekers as an option to assess their skills before participating in additional training. If a central process is desired, partners should provide input on the tool. One method would be to provide an introductory, self-paced online web development training free to all, and use completion and performance on this training as a method for recommending job seekers for further training or job opportunities. Another method would be to provide job seekers with access to hard and soft skill assessments and link these assessments to recommendations for further training or job opportunities.</li>
    </ul>
  </li>
</ul>