---
num: 5
title: Infrastructure for Validation and Matching
---

As described at the start of this playbook, the main goal of TechHire is to create opportunity for individuals. This is accomplished through two primary activities: 1) training job seekers for IT jobs and 2) enabling employers to hire based on abilities rather than traditional credentials. In order for this to be achieved at scale, there is a need for a trusted, low-cost method for validating the skills of job seekers and placing them into "matching" roles in their communities. In the absence of such a solution, employers will continue to depend on college credentials, employment history, and other traditional screens to filter and select among the large number of applications they receive. 

Validation and matching can be accomplished through a combination of job boards, assessments, training provider validation, and analytical tools. Alternatively, or in addition, a community can facilitate the development of hiring onramps. Hiring onramps are organizations that centralize some of the above activities within a single organization: they conduct assessments, validate skills, understand employer needs, and match talent to job openings. 

### Checklist:

<p class="expander" data-expander-target="#opportunities5">
  Identify or develop online and offline job matching opportunities
</p>
<ul id="opportunities5">
  <li>Identify or build a job board: A job board is a place where: (1) job seekers can post their skills profiles and portfolio of work to be searched by employers; and (2) employers can post their job posting and skills needs to be searched by job seekers. Creating an online community job board is an important first step in creating TechHire matches. Even if there are eventually other avenues for hiring for employers, a job board will always be useful for job seekers to see the type of available positions and for employers to see the type of available candidates.
    <ul>
      <li>Building the job board requires basic technological capabilities of creating and owning the website and back-end data. We would also advise a very simple-to-use portal through which both job seekers and employers can enter their respective information.</li>
      <li>In the beginning, marketing of the job board through employer and training provider partnerships is key to build the network on the job board, until it can become self-sustaining.</li>
    </ul>
  </li>
  <li>Orchestrate annual or semi-annual offline job fairs with major employers</li>
</ul>

<p class="expander" data-expander-target="#assess5">
  Create suite of assessments for job seekers to demonstrate their skills and fit
</p>
<ul id="assess5">
  <li>There are broadly four categories of skills that one would like to assess: (1) general intelligence; (2) IT occupation-specific hard skills (e.g. Java programming); (3) soft skills like teamwork, grit, communication; (4) organizational culture fit</li>
  <li>In selecting assessments tools, we recommend that the assessments (in random order):
    <ul>
      <li>Have strong employer ("face") validity</li>
      <li>Are attractive and easy to use for job seekers</li>
      <li>Satisfy legal / regulatory conditions (e.g. EEOC "4/5ths" rule)</li>
      <li>Allow job seeker to own their assessments scores and results</li>
      <li>Can be deployed easily at scale</li>
      <li>Are supported by sound underlying cognitive psychology researchresources</li>
    </ul>
  </li>
</ul>

<p class="expander" data-expander-target="#channels5">
  Develop official "hiring channels" – a list of training providers and intermediaries from which employers can hire quality candidates
</p>
<ul id="channels5">
  <li>Identify TechHire training providers that have a successful track record of placing candidates with employer partners. Work with employer and / or training provider partners to understand which local and national training providers have a track record of providing consistently high quality IT candidates and hires.</li>
  <li>Highlight those training providers as being part of a "curated" hiring channel:
    <ul>
      <li>In addition to the standard metrics recommended above, collect from these training providers information on job placement rates and starting wages for students, specifically in the community. Standard metrics include annual enrollment, annual completion, admissions criteria, whether the program is real-time or self-paced, length of program, part-time vs. full-time, tuition, and availability of public and/or scholarship funding</li>
    </ul>
  </li>
  <li>Partner with these training providers to direct their students to create profiles on the job board and / or coordinate job fairs around course completion / graduation</li>

<p class="expander" data-expander-target="#onramp5">
  Help support one or multiple hiring onramps. A hiring onramp is an intermediary organization that validates skills, understands employer needs, and matches talent to job openings.  An effective onramp has:
</p>
<ul id="onramp5">
  <li>A strong employer network</li>
  <li>Accelerated training providers with a large pool of trained job candidates</li>
  <li>WIBs and other local job seeker-serving intermediaries should view hiring onramps as an opportunity for placing clients into jobs that they otherwise would not have access to</li>
  <li>WIBs and other local job seeker-serving intermediaries should funnel all job candidates to onramps as one option for placing into a job:
    <ul>
      <li>Grants are often connected to certain target populations. WIBs should funnel all candidates to hiring onramps, not just the ones who qualify for certain WIB support</li>
    </ul>
  </li>
</ul>
