---
num: 7
title: Implementation and Scaled Sign Up
---

### Employer Sign Up

<p class="expander" data-expander-target="#signal7">
  Signal to job seekers and training providers that employers are behind this initiative: they are willing to interview candidates from nontraditional sources for open positions within their company. 
</p>

<ul id="signal7">
  <li>Community: Develop a communications plan: what is TechHire about, why should an employer consider joining, what benefits will they receive?</li>
  <li>Community: Define the specific ask of employers: they must be willing to interview and (when a fit) hire candidates for IT roles with the right skills, but non-traditional pedigree</li>
  <li>Community: Build a list of employers who have been active in TechHire, and begin to contact employers with the communications you have built</li>
  <li>Community: Have them sign a commitment form: <a href="http://techhire.org/signup" target="_blank">techhire.org/signup</a></li>
  <li>Community: Seek out new employer contacts from existing employers in your network and continue to grow the network.</li>
</ul>

### Training Provider and Other Integrated Job Seeker Resource Sign Up

<p class="expander" data-expander-target="#ensure7">
  Ensure that training provider partners understand criteria to participate
</p>
<ul id="ensure7">
  <li><strong>Meet employer demand</strong> – The specific skills or occupational categories targeted by the training provider or other intermediary must align with the skill and competency needs of employers.</li>
  <li><strong>Quality</strong> – Training provider and intermediary partners should have some track record of successfully placing students into jobs, ideally with employers in the region.</li>
  <li><strong>Mission alignment</strong> – The mission of TechHire is twofold: to create an ecosystem that supports employers hiring on skills and competencies rather than pedigree and recent work experience and to create economic opportunity for job seekers who face barriers to obtaining training and employment. Training provider and other intermediary partners should be aligned with this dual mission and should have some track record of serving job seekers that face barriers including but not limited to: level of income, level of educational attainment, moving in and out of the workforce, out of date skills, forced career switch, long-term unemployment, returning to the civilian workforce from military service, returning home from incarceration, or immigration status.</li>
  <li><strong>Willingness to share data</strong> – A key component of TechHire is improving the quality of training and other hiring pathways over time. One strategy for promoting this is to gather feedback directly from employers about the success of placements from various hiring channels. It is critical that training providers and other intermediaries can share information on where and when job seekers are placed into jobs to allow for a third party to collect targeted and focused feedback from employers about the success of the hire. It is also critical that each training provider and intermediary that seeks to be on the list of "curated hiring channels" share job placement rates, and if possible, average salary of placements.</li>
</ul>
